[Api][POC]Convert iri to code in command (#12487)
Sylius/Sylius: adr/2021_04_15_using_iri_instead_of_code_id.md

> # Using iri instead of code/id in requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using IRI as API resource identifier in requests instead of code/id
```

* Status: proposed
* Date: 2021-04-15

## Context and Problem Statement

> ApiPlatform provides and recommends using IRI as identifier. That identifier is more clearly than classic id and 
> contain more information. On resources, ApiPlatform handles IRI out of the box.
> During creation our new API in many places we decided to use commands while creating our endpoints. For certain cases
> this solution is more flexible than classic approach, but it doesn't handle transformation IRI to proper `code`/`id`.
> In the past we decided to use `code`/`id` instead of IRI. Now we try to unify API and replace this approach for solution with using IRI.
> Main problem is sent request with field as IRI and creation command without IRI, but with `id`/`code`. 
> It's needed for proper handling behaviour in command handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Platform recommends using IRI as an identifier. That identifier gives more clarity than an id because it contains more information - a full endpoint path to the resource and its unique identifier. On resources, API Platform handles IRI out of the box.
While we were designing Sylius new API, we have decided to use commands in many endpoints. 
In some cases, this solution is more flexible than the default creation approach (as we have control over what we are processing), but it doesn't handle the transformation of IRI to proper `code`/`id`.

In the past, we have been using `code`/`id` instead of IRI, then we have been using both approaches. 
Now we are trying to unify the new API and replace codes and ids with IRI everywhere.

The main challenge is the usage of IRI in requests, where we want to have IRI in the request but `id`/`code`in its commands and command handlers.
```

> ## Considered Options

Reviewer: I would be for adding the second option to use ids and codes to this consideration section and describing its pros and cons

### Handling and transforming IRI to `id`/`code`

> For handling IRI we created `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\CommandFieldItemIriToIdentifierDenormalizer` and
> `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Map\CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap`. `CommandFieldItemIriToIdentifierDenormalizer` 
> transforms and denormalizes our command using `CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap` as a bag with definition for
> supported denormalize commands. All you have to do for adding command support is add command FQCN as a key 
> and field name as a field that will be transformed from IRI to `code`/`id`. All definition are registered in 
> `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Map\CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap` service: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For handling IRI we have created `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\CommandFieldItemIriToIdentifierDenormalizer` and
`Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Map\CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap`. `CommandFieldItemIriToIdentifierDenormalizer` 
transforms and denormalizes the command using `CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap` as a bag with a definition for
the supported denormalizing commands. All one has to do for adding command support is to add the command FQCN as a key and the field name as a field that will be transformed from IRI to `code`/`id`. All definitions are registered in 
`Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Map\CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap` service: 
```

````
        <service id="Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Map\CommandItemIriArgumentToIdentifierMap">
            <argument type="collection">
                <argument key="Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Command\AddProductReview">product</argument>
                <argument key="Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Command\Checkout\ChoosePaymentMethod">paymentMethod</argument>
                <argument key="Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Command\Account\ChangePaymentMethod">paymentMethod</argument>
                <argument key="NewCommandFQCN">NewCommandFieldName</argument><-- Example -->
            </argument>
        </service>
````

* Good, because it unifies API structure
* Good, because it causes API easier to use

> * Good, because it allows creating request with field on command as IRI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Good, because it unifies API structure
> * Good, because it causes API easier to use
> * Good, because it allows creating request with field on command as IRI
> * Good, because it leaves command field without IRI but with `id`/`code`
> * Bad, because it imposes new abstraction layer for commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Good, because it unifies the API structure
* Good, because it makes the API easier to use
* Good, because it allows having `id`/`code` transformed from IRI in the command field
* Bad, because it imposes a new abstraction layer for commands
```

> # Using IRI as API resource identifier in requests instead of code/id

Reviewer: The name of the file could be also adjusted

* Status: proposed
* Date: 2021-04-15

## Context and Problem Statement

API Platform recommends using IRI as an identifier. That identifier gives more clarity than an id because it contains more information - a full endpoint path to the resource and its unique identifier. On resources, API Platform handles IRI out of the box.
While we were designing Sylius new API, we have decided to use commands in many endpoints.
In some cases, this solution is more flexible than the default creation approach (as we have control over what we are processing), but it doesn't handle the transformation of IRI to proper `code`/`id`.
In the past, we have been using `code`/`id` instead of IRI, then we have been using both approaches.
Now we are trying to unify the new API and replace codes and ids with IRI everywhere.
The main challenge is the usage of IRI in requests, where we want to have IRI in the request but `id`/`code`in its commands and command handlers.

## Considered Options

> ### Using `id`/`code` instead of iri

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `id`/`code` instead of IRI
```
And in other places

> Using `code`/`id` instead of iri is easier implementable, but it is not consistence with most cases.
> ApiPlatform handles it out of the box. Main problem is that for getting fe. `code` we need call "extra" request only for 
> getting code from this object. Iri are available as a collections element or field on certain object. Is many examples
> when we don't need to call next request for getting `code`/`id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `code`/`id` instead of IRI is easier to implement, but it is not consistent with API Platform and its default behaviour.
```
I don't understand the second part of this section, what additional request are you talking about?

> * Good, because it is easier implementable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Good, because it is easier to implement
```

> * Bad, because it not consistence with others endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bad, because it not consistent with others endpoints
```
